10 Common Git Commands

Note:
On Windows, git m/b installed at: C:\Users\USERNAME\AppData\Local\Programs\Git
This path involves hidden folders, but works.
Run git-bash while in the install folder and cd to bin to see available shell commands. 

> Inspecting things 
git diff - See all file changes locally. A file name can be appended to show changes for only one file.
git log - See all commit history. Can also be used for a file with git log -p my_file. Enter q to exit.
git blame my_file - See who changed what and when in my_file.
git reflog - Show a log of changes to the local repository’s HEAD. Good for finding lost work.

> Undo things 
git reset --hard HEAD— Discard staged and unstaged changes since the most recent commit.

git checkout my_commit— Discard unstaged changes since my_commit.  (ed: does it really? if local changes exist does it trash them?)
	Footnotes: 
	HEAD is often used for my_commit to discard changes to your local working directory since the most recent commit
	If you use checkout with a branch instead of a commit, HEAD is switched to the specified branch and the working directory is updated to match. This is the more common use of the checkout command.

git revert my_commit —Undo the effects of changes in my_commit. revert makes a new commit when it undoes the changes.
	Footnote: revert is safe for collaborative projects because it doesn’t overwrite history that other users’ branches might depend upon.

git clean -n —Delete untracked files in the local working directory.
	-n flag is for a dry run where nothing is deleted.
	-f flag to actually remove the files.
	-d flag to remove untracked directories.
	Footnote: By default files untracked by .gitignore will not be deleted, but this behavior can be altered.

git commit --amend - Add your staged changes to the most recent commit.
	If nothing is staged, this command just allows you to edit the most recent commit message. 
	Only use this command if the commit has not been integrated into the remote master branch.

